---
layout: page
title: "Groups"
category: ref
date: 2015-05-02 13:14:30
---

```javascript
var hdf5 = require('hdf5').hdf5;
```

#### Attributes

> 
> * id 

* * *

Group.prototype.**create**(xpath)  

> 
> * xpath &rarr; the relative path to the group to create.  Delimited with / and if any group along the stem doesn't exist creates it too
> * return &larr; the new group object

Group.prototype.**open**(xpath)  

> 
> * xpath &rarr; the relative path to the group to open.  Delimited with / and will throw an exception if it doesn't exist.  Useful particularly in read only mode
> * return &larr; the opened group object

Group.prototype.**openGroup**(xpath)  

> 

Group.prototype.**flush**()  

> Flushes subtree and metadata from javascript to h5 components in memory and on to the h5 file.
>

Group.prototype.**refresh**()  

> Refreshes subtree and metadata from h5 file to h5 components in memory and on to the javascript. Reverse action to flush.
>

Group.prototype.**copy**(source, id, destination)  

> 
> * source &rarr; the name of the source group
> * id &rarr; {{ site.hdf5_id }}. In this case it is the destination's future location.
> * destination &rarr; the name of the destination group.

Group.prototype.**move**(source, id, destination)  

> 
> * source &rarr; the name of the source group
> * id &rarr; {{ site.hdf5_id }}. In this case it is the destination's future location.  If it is the group's id this essentially renames the source
> * destination &rarr; the name of the destination group.

Group.prototype.**link**(source, id, destination)  

> 
> * source &rarr; the name of the source group
> * id &rarr; {{ site.hdf5_id }}. In this case it is the destination's future location.
> * destination &rarr; the name of the destination group.

Group.prototype.**delete**(name)  

> 
> * name &rarr; the name of the group to delete. An apprehensive activity with an h5 file but sometimes it is necessary

Group.prototype.**close"**()  

> 

Group.prototype.**getNumAttrs**()  

> 
> * return &larr; # of attributes

Group.prototype.**getNumObjs**()  

> 
> * return &larr; # of children

Group.prototype.**getMemberNames**()  

> 
> * return &larr; an array with the names in alphabetic order

Group.prototype.**getMemberNamesByCreationOrder**()  

> 
> * return &larr; an array with the names in creation order

Group.prototype.**getChildType**(name)  

> 
> * name &rarr; the name of the child
> * return &larr; the type according to [H5OType]({{ site.baseurl }}/ref/globals.html#h5otype) and indicates group, dataset or  named datatype

Group.prototype.**getDatasetType**(name)  

> 
> * name &rarr; the name of the child dataset
> * return &larr; the high level type according to [HLType]({{ site.baseurl }}/ref/globals.html#hltype) and indicates group, dataset or  named datatype.
>   Useful when working with h5 in general and programmatically would like to know which part of the api to use

Group.prototype.**getDatasetDimensions**(name)  

> 
> * name &rarr; the name of the child dataset
> * return &larr; an array of length dataset rank and entries for the length of each dimension

Group.prototype.**getDataType**(name)  

> 
> * name &rarr; the name of the child
> * return &larr; the type according to [H5Type]({{ site.baseurl }}/ref/globals.html#h5type).
>   Useful when working with h5 in general and programmatically would like to prepare for particular data type

Group.prototype.**getDatasetAttributes**(name)  

>   Attributes on any dataset. These can be arrays of elements.
> 
> * name &rarr; the name of the child dataset
> * return &larr; object with attributes.

Group.prototype.**getDatasetAttribute**(name, attr_name)  

>   Dataset attribute by its name.
> 
> * name &rarr; the name of the child dataset
> * attr_name &rarr; the name of the attribute
> * return &larr; the value of attribute.

Group.prototype.**getFilters**(name);

> 
> * name &rarr; the name of the child dataset
> * return &larr; a [Filters]({{ site.baseurl }}/ref/filters.html#filters) object for accessing the dataset's filters.

Group.prototype.**iterate**(idx, function(type, name));
> Steps thru each child.
> 
> * idx &rarr; unused starting over index
> * function &rarr; synchronous callback function returning [H5Type]({{ site.baseurl }}/ref/globals.html#h5type) and name.

Group.prototype.**visit**(idx, function(type, xpath));

> Recursively steps thru each child and subgroup's children.
> 
> * idx &rarr; unused starting over index
> * function &rarr; synchronous callback function returning [H5Type]({{ site.baseurl }}/ref/globals.html#h5type) and xpath.
